 Alright, so let's talk about this kind of weird phenomenon that I've noticed lately when it comes to jobs and jobboards. So, the other thing is that I've seen a lot of people applying for jobs and they just get these sort of blanket, almost immediate rejections without any explanation. And the jobs that they apply for continue to stay up. So it's not like they're being filled and they're just, you know, they're picking somebody else. It's the jobs are just up and they're staying up. They're not, people are applying and they're qualified but they're not getting hired. So, what is, what is the likely explanation for this? And I think one of the most likely explanations is it's pretty simple and it's that these jobs, many of these jobs that these companies are posting, just they don't exist, right? They're not real jobs. And there's actually a term for this. It's called ghost jobs. Ghost jobs posting ghost jobs is not only a common practice, it's actually considered normal and it's been going on for a long time. And there are different reasons organizations will post ghost jobs. Sometimes they anticipate a future need that doesn't quite exist yet. They're not ready to hire yet for position but they want to have that talent pool available to them. They sort of want to think of like prime the pump if you will. They anticipate a future need. So they're going to go ahead and, you know, collect resumes, figure out kind of what, what's out there. And that'll also give them an idea of the market rate. Right. So what are we going to have to pay if we do actually ever hire from these positions. What are we going to have to pay? What's the market rate? Okay. So obviously if you're looking for a job, you don't want to waste your time applying to ghost jobs. Right. Now that doesn't mean that, you know, nothing good could come of it because you might apply for a ghost job and, you know, six months or a year goes by but then eventually your resume kind of gets passed around and you do get hired because you apply. So I'm not saying, you know, stranger things have happened. But you should be able to make that decision, right. You should be able to look at a posting and decide, okay, is this a ghost job and do I want to apply for it? Or is this just a waste of my time. Okay. So there's several hallmark indicators I've noticed with these ghost job. One of them and of course dealing with technology is that the requirements, the qualifications, when it comes to your skills and your technology that you know, your tech stack basically, it's going to be very vague. Right. They're going to ask for very generic things that quite honestly somebody who's in the IT world would never word things this way, but they'll be like, you should have skills in API development. Okay. Or cloud or maybe it may be very generic like AI engineering or just graph QL. So it might be something kind of kind of specific, but it won't mention how it all fits together. Right. It won't necessarily mention the full stack. Okay. And I think that's a huge warning sign when it when it mentions like databases, cloud APIs, but there's no stack like this. Does it say you don't burn stack or anything like that. Okay. Why don't you tell me what stack you're working with. That's kind of weird. Right. So to me that indicates a lack of seriousness. It indicates a lack of research. And it really strongly suggests that none of the technologies they're asking for is actually being used currently. Right. So what they're probably doing is they sort of have a vague idea of what they want. Somebody from HR probably put this into, you know, GPT and like, you know, create a job description for me. And it's very vague. Right. It's very vague. So I think the way I deal with this is when talking with the recruiter, I will ask very specifically, what are you trying to build? What is this role going to be building and doing. And if they come back with just a list of technologies like, well, you need to know this. You need to know that. That's that's a warning sign. Right. That you they're not trying to build anything. They don't have anything in mind. They're just basically saying, well, they're trying to hide the fact that it's a ghost job. Okay. So that's one. The other warning sign is if it's an established company. Okay. So we're not talking about a startup here. We're going to be very clear about that. Not talking about us a startup or a very small company, but an established company think midsize to a large company. If the job posting asks you to wear multiple hats or to be able to kind of switch between roles. That's a very clear sign. The posting is not for a real job. Okay. In larger companies, even midsize companies, roles are very siloed. Okay. So you've got certain you've got your role. And whoever's working in that particular role, they've got a list of technologies and things that they touch and they are not allowed to venture outside of their silo. Okay. Right. So I give an example place I used to work. You know, I was a Citrix support engineer. So I dealt with Citrix. If I needed a VMware server restarted, I didn't have access to do it. Right. I had to go. There's VMware team for that. Okay. So that's what I mean when I say roles in these mid to large organizations or siloed. So why on earth? Think about it. If if you see a job posting that has a certain title, right. They list a certain title. Let's say it's, you know, whatever AI engineer. Okay. That's sort of the hot thing now. AI engineer. But then you look at the listing and it asks for it, well, you need to be able to wear multiple hats. We want an AI engineer who can also do other stuff too. Why would you put a very specific job title, but then in the description, you're listing things that are very generic and very general. And wouldn't wouldn't even necessarily apply to AI engineering. Unless you actually, you know, had a very specific understanding of how those how those general skills were to be applied. Right. So if you're like, I engineer. Okay. We need you to go and we're going to need you to implement some kind of AI enabled automation for these other things we've got going on here. Well, then tell us what the other things are. Right. Tell us what you're working with here. Tell us what are the other stacks. What are the other teams, you know. So when you want somebody who's going to have this kind of overarching, I would, I would say almost not quite governance in the executive sense, but in the sense of you want somebody who can kind of jump from one application to another, one environment to another and be able to sort of just kind of brainstorm and say, this is what AI can do. That's all I say that's almost like a consultant job really. So when, when they're asking for AI engineer, maybe it reads more like a consultant, a consultant job description. I think that's a warning sign that you could be dealing with the ghost job. Another warning sign, no clear story or mission. This kind of ties into what I just said, but the job posting doesn't really, it sort of seems to just be floating out there. Right. There's no tie in with anything else the company is doing. Right. You know, if it's some kind of medical or health related company and they don't explain like this is what we're going to be doing with AI. This is how we're going to be using it. That's kind of weird, right. I mean, again, it goes back to this idea that they don't have a specific understanding or a specific direction that they're going. Again, another warning sign, I think of a potential ghost job there. Compensation, skewed compensation. I have seen this a lot lately and this is, this is pretty strange to be honest with you because I've been, I've been in this world for a long time. And typically compensation, it's either not listed or it's, it's pretty within pretty well defined range. But what I've seen lately is you get just really high, high numbers or really low numbers. And I think this is an indication that they're testing the waters, right, to see who's going to bite, right. So who's going to apply for the low end jobs when I say low end, I mean low compensation jobs. Who's going to apply for the really high end ones. And then now we can take, we can take those and we can sort of see like, all right, we can sort of play these against each other. Right. So if somebody says I want 200 K, I expect 200 K, they're going to look and be like, well, this other position, same job description, which of course is going to be really vague. They'll accept, you know, 95 K. Oh, well, you know, so they, they could use that potentially to sort of play off each other. I'm not saying it's nest that's always the reason. I think whenever you're dealing with ghost jobs anyway, the descriptions are going to be vague and that's going to make it hard to sort of figure out the, the right compensation. But again, it just goes back to testing the water, seeing, seeing what will make people bite. Another thing I've run to and this is more so, I would say when you're actually speaking with a recruiter, if they seem really interested in your compensation expectation. Now, it's normal. It's totally normal for a recruiter or a hiring manager to just ask your desired salary. That's a normal thing. There's nothing strange about that. But if you say, I'm flexible, I'm willing to consider anything. Let's just say, you know, I hate to say it like this, but let's just say you're just, you're honest and you say, listen, I need a job. I'm not going to be picky. I'll accept whatever you're willing to pay me. Okay. If they still push you for a specific number, that's data collection, right. They're not serious about filling that role. They're not serious because if they were serious, somebody comes and says, I need a job. I've got the skills. I'll accept whatever you want to pay me. And you're like, well, what's your number? No, that's, if you're serious, you would be like, yeah, come on. Let's hire this person because they've got the skills and they're willing and they're ready to go. Why would you create a barrier for them unless the job didn't exist and you actually had no intention of hiring anybody? Another one is very rigid education requirements. And this is, I think, a very, very clear sign that if a job description asks for, not just ask for, but insist, it demands a bachelor's degree and will not accept experience as a substitute, that is an indication that it was written by HR and not somebody in IT. Now, the reason I say that is, like I said, I've been in this world for a long time. I could go back 20 years. This has been consistent. Positions will say bachelor's degree or experience, right. We'll accept experience in lieu of a bachelor's degree. Okay. Because frankly, nobody really cares about a piece of paper. It's traditional in the IT world to accept experience in lieu of education. And the obvious reason for that is that university education is always outdated. By the time you graduate, you're already probably like 10 years behind. Because university curriculum is behind textbooks, even online curricula is behind. So by the time you get out and get your piece of paper that says you graduated, well, guess what? Everything you learned is probably going to be obsolete anyway, not everything, but a lot of it's going to be obsolete. So I think this is probably the biggest red flag. If you see a job posting that says you must have a bachelor's degree, and even if you have the bachelor's degree, okay. If you see that and it says you must have a bachelor's degree and that's it, there's no, there's no accepting experience. I would tread very carefully. And if it looks like a role you're interested in, do your due diligence and try to figure out whether it's a ghost job or not. Because I think that is one of the biggest red flags. And put it in the broader context, right. If a company says we need this role for this new emerging technology, again, use AIs, an example, we need this AI engineer bleeding edge, right. You got to have a degree that perhaps you 10, 15, you know, however many years ago, 5, 10, 15 years ago, it's going to have very little relevance to this new cutting edge role that we're hiring for. It doesn't make sense. It doesn't go together, right. And it speaks to somebody. It indicates somebody wrote this that they don't know, they don't understand what they're asking for. Okay. And again, I think it's just a sign that either HR wrote it or somebody had GPT write it and post it. Another one I alluded to already, one way rejection. Another warning sign I alluded to earlier is this one way rejection. You apply, you've got the right qualification, you get back some blank rejection. Sorry, we've decided not to move forward with your application. No explanation, nothing else. Ghost, almost 100% it's a ghost. Not saying that these these form letter rejections don't exist. But like I said, when they are saying we're hiring, we really want to hire somebody. You apply, they just kind of ignore you. And then the position still stays up, right. They don't fill a ghost job. Okay. Another one related to if you're actually speaking to a recruiter, if there is a recruiter involved or a hiring manager, when you speak to them and you ask direct questions and they dodge your very direct questions and they act uninterested, right. Even after they hear your qualifications, you might be like the perfect fit for the role and they're just sort of like not really excited about it. That's a big warning sign. Recruiter is usually get a cut, right. So if they find finding a qualified candidate for a recruiter, it's like finding money on the ground.